Title: 
  The Participatory Accounting of Social Impacts

Submitters:
  Dr Greg Singh (Associate Professor in Media and Communications at the Uni. of Stirling, Scotland)
  Dr Ashley McClenaghan (Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Uni. of Stirling, Scotland)

Presentation format: 
  A 5 minute lightning talk

Attendance intent: 
  Online only; day two only; funding is not required

Abstract: 

   We propose a platform which will support the participatory accounting of waste reduction 
(and other social impacts) by Scotland's Third Sector reuse/recycling organisations.

   The digitisation of Third Sector outcomes into tractable forms and publication as Open Data, 
is almost zero. This contrasts with data publication by government agencies and local authorities.
We want to address this imbalance by using our proposed platform to highlight and promote 
the waste reduction achievements, and environmental and societal outcomes of 
Third Sector organisations (TSOs). Their published data could feed into policy making and,
in general, open future data-backed possibilities as participation, data volumes and fidelity 
on the platform, all increase.

  We are working with three local TSOs plus our local authority, to co-develop a proof-of-concept 
of our platform. We are all participants: evolving the design of the platform; 
contributing measurement data (quantities, times and descriptions of reused/recycled material); 
providing reference metrics (categorisation standards); and contributing secondary data (joining data, 
downstream calculations).

  Our platform aims to support not only this multi-role participation, but also 
to scale to potentially all TSOs in the nation while allowing for their diversity. 
At a basic operational level, our digital system considers the private Excel spreadsheets 
of participating TSOs, provides non-intrusive means to publish these to public 
islands of Open Data (shared vocabularies, RDF graphs), provides the means to join-up those 
islands using standard tools (federated SPARQL) for the extraction of knowledge and global insights. 
Finally, our platform provides apps to make the data and knowledge accessible to non-expert users.

