
how we might build linked open data about carbon savings from dissimilar data sources 
(with 3rd sector reuse and recycling organisations, particularly in mind).

--

Proposing [later, say that we have worked with a few local reuse orgs to proof-of-concepted aspects of this]

A platform supporting the participatory accounting of waste reduction (and other social impacts) (in Scotland)?
We might build a prototype app which will allow organisations to: 
upload their waste reduction data; validate it; 
assure security and track provenance; compose and accumulate it; 
and publish it as open linked data. 
The drivers of this work would be two-fold: 
Firstly, to highlight the waste reduction achievements (and other facets - social and environmental impacts) of 3rd sector waste reducing organisations. 
Secondly (and more academically), to explore how linked open data concepts and technology can be practically applied to a (worthy) case-study.

--

thrusts

making data accessible/open to all
data about waste in Scotland
promoting less published/3rd Sector data

--

title breakdown

Participatory ⇒ 🌍 anyone can contribute (potentially)

Accounting ⇒ 📰 make public the evidence-backed data, digitise it, should be useful/tractible but doesn't have to be numbers

Social impacts ⇒ ✨ Third Sector (less published) data (lots of gov & council data but few 3rd Sector Orgs report their outcomes)

--

design a system to help
digitise (record and report) the waste reduction contributions of 3rd sector organisations,
which will promote their work, inform for policy making, 
and open up future opportunities as participantion, data volumes and fidelity all increase.

--

eco focus?

We consider the broad spectrum of 'Social impact': social, economic, environmental
and focus on waste reduction

--
 
Participatory is stronger, more engaging than just informing, consulting, even involving

Participants can play many roles: be a designer/evolver of the digital system, data contributer, information consumer,  

--

for our datasets to become part of the global linked data graph, 
we need to define their semantics explicitly, in standardised way. 
I.e. we need to describe our datasets as an RDF graph, using standard linked data vocabularies, 
to explain to everyone how to interpret our data and how it is linked to other data.
To achieve this, we use...

--

The digital system to support not only this multi role participation but also geographically distribution

Take the  from private Excel spreadsheets,
  provide non-intrusive means  to publish to public islands of standarised forms (RDF graph, common vocabs)
  join-up using federated SPARQL → extract knowledge, global insights
  apps which make data and knowledge accessible to non-expert users

--






